Story Recapped here. Today, I’m going to
explain an action, horror, mystery film called
“The Bad Batch.” Spoilers ahead! Watch
out and take care.
In an unknown barren wasteland in the post-apocalyptic
United States, a P.A. system announcement
addresses U.S. R.C.S. employees to avoid prolonged
physical contact with Bad Batch inmates and
limit their eye contact with them for no longer
than ten seconds. Shortly, one of the prison
guards calls the inmate's number 50-35 to
50-40 to step into the room to get their corresponding
serial numbers. Arlen May Johnson, an average-looking
juvenile teenage girl, steps inside and receives
a tattoo on her neck, just behind the right
side of her ear, bearing the letters 'BB-50-40'
tagging her as "Bad Batch 50-40."
On that same day, two prison guards escort
Arlen to an unknown desolate area where they
detain all the Bad Batch inmates. The guards
quickly lock the gates behind her, and she
suddenly finds herself in the middle of a
vast, dry, and barren wasteland. With nowhere
else to go, she grabs her water container,
straps on her backpack, and starts walking.
Along the way, she finds an interesting pamphlet
that reads: "Find the DREAM and find COMFORT."
She then soon finds an abandoned car, which
she thinks is strange. Feeling exhausted,
she seeks refuge inside it. Moments later,
Arlen notices a rumbling sound from an oncoming
vehicle and checks the rearview mirror, where
she sees two people in a golf caddie moving
towards her. As the caddie gets closer, she
feels something off about it and suddenly
senses great danger is coming her way. Arlen
tries to escape, but the enslavers manage
to capture her just as she starts running.
Arlen wakes up and finds herself tied in chains
and gagged. She then tries to look for someone
who could help her, but as she looks at the
surroundings, she instead discovers that she
is in some odd community. She sees shelters
made from debris and people behaving strangely
than normal. One of her captors approaches
her. As her captor reaches for her hand, Arlen
struggles to resist, but amidst her solid
resisting effort, the captor triumphantly
administers some anesthetic into her arm.
Seconds later, Arlen feels a tingling sensation
on her fingers and suddenly feels dizzy, almost
losing her consciousness again. Her captor
draws out a hacksaw and cuts through her arm
without hesitation. She hysterically screams
as her captor is amputating her arm. Though
the anesthetic suppresses the sensation of
pain, she cries as she loses her arm permanently,
and after which her right leg follows. Arlen
now fully understands that she is inside a
strange, terrifying community of cannibals.
After spending several days and nights in
the cannibal community as a captive, Arlen
has unceasingly been hearing agonizing screams
from other neighboring captives. Despite her
traumatic condition, she brilliantly devises
a plan to escape. The following day, Arlen
covers herself up with her feces, hoping that
her captor will unchain her from the walls.
True enough, after seeing her state, the captor
unchains her and drags her outside to wash
her.
As the captor fetches a bucket of water, Arlen
quickly snatches a two-foot-long metal bar
lying on the ground and hides it behind her
back. She times for the right opportunity
to strike, and within seconds, Arlen brings
her captor unconsciously down to the ground.
Using the same metal bar, she unceasingly
pounds her captor's head. After making sure
that her captor is dead, Arlen crawls around
to look for something to help her escape.
She sees an old box full of scraps, immediately
digs on it, and fortunately finds an old skateboard
that she can use. She then rides it with her
back and finally manages to escape the community.
A few moments after her escape, under the
scorching heat of the sun, the thirst for
water consummately takes its toll, and she
loses her willpower to move further. Then
a shabby wanderer with a shopping cart filled
with scraps suddenly appears and approaches
her. Sensing her vulnerability, the man takes
her to a new community called "The Comfort."
Five months later, Arlen moves on with her
new life and becomes a permanent resident
of the community. With her new prosthetics
installed, living in a brand-new and friendlier
community has never been easier. Though the
place is quite similar to the cannibal community
that she escaped from, The Comfort is also
mostly built from debris and scraps. Make-shift
houses made from old camper trucks combined
with junk materials are also prevalent in
the area. However, the big difference in this
community is that the people living here lead
a more decent life than those of the cannibal
community.
The people in this town don't eat other people,
they eat regular food like ordinary people,
and most especially, they respect one another.
There is an existing economy inside The Comfort
where people have jobs, others run their businesses,
while others offer their services. People
in this community have their residences, and
they even have a public park where they can
spend their time recreating and playing. People
living inside The Comfort respect and value
each other's lives and co-exists with one
another.
On the other hand, a mysterious Miami Man
compels to abide by the harsh reality of their
society as he lives inside the cannibal community,
also known as "The Bridge." He illustrates
the ways of living inside the Bridge as he
breaks a young girl's neck, butchers her entire
body, and prepares a meal out of it for his
family to feed.
One day, out of nowhere, Arlen suddenly feels
the perplexity of her desires, of what she
truly wants for her life and what she truly
wants to become. She somehow perceives that
she seems unsatisfied living her life inside
The Comfort. Uncertain of what to do, Arlen
loads her 38 caliber gun and decides to take
a walk outside the safeguarding walls of The
Comfort as she welcomely feels the dismal
air that surrounds the desolate desert on
her skin.
She then arrives at a dumpsite where she finds
a woman and a child, which happens to be the
family of the mysterious Miami Man from earlier,
scavenging for usable scraps. Slowly and carefully,
Arlen moves towards them and asks where they
came from. The woman defensively avoids answering
the question. Arlen becomes suspicious and
accuses her of being a Bridge person. The
woman continues to avoid the confrontation
and replies that they are just looking for
plates. Arlen asks her if her kid eats people
too. The woman poorly reasons out that they
are just trying to survive, same as her. Her
words offend Arlen and intensify her resentment
towards them, and without second thoughts,
Arlen shoots the woman on the head. Able to
witness everything, the child who is with
the woman tries to wake her up, uncertain
about the reality of the situation. After
seeing the child's reaction, Arlen then decides
to take the child inside The Comfort.
Meanwhile, the mysterious Miami Man suddenly
feels uneasy ― so he goes to look for his
family.
Inside The Comfort, the child finds a vendor
that sells live rabbits. As Arlen notices
the child's fascination towards the creatures,
she pays for one of them to compensate for
what she did. Arlen tries to make the child
comfortable by being nice to her, but the
child just stolidly gazes at her while petting
the rabbit. She tries to break the ice by
introducing herself, but the child seems to
show less care to almost no interest at all.
Unable to contain her emotions, Arlen harshly
tells the child that nobody cares for her
anymore, and she could have just left her
in the desert. The child then looks at her.
As Arlen stares at the child, she suddenly
softens, changes the topic, and asks if she
likes the rabbit and wishes to keep it. And
at last, the child responds with a nod.
On the other side of the community, the mysterious
Miami Man arrives at the dumpsite and finds
his woman lying lifeless on the ground. Alongside
is the shabby wanderer from earlier, who took
Arlen to The Comfort, minding his business,
scavenging for usable scraps. The Miami Man
then calls him, shows a sketch portrait of
his child, and asks if he saw her. The wanderer
smiles and gestures with his hand that he
wants something in return for the information.
Then he suddenly poses in front of the Miami
Man as if telling him to make a sketch portrait
of himself. In a state of disbelief, the mysterious
Miami Man goes for the deal and starts to
sketch and finishes it within a few seconds.
The wanderer smiles astonishingly while looking
at the result. Then he suddenly snatches the
sketch pad and writes the words: FIND COMFORT.
On that very same day, Arlen and the child
already seem to get along pretty well. Both
of them prepare themselves for the street
party that is set to happen at midnight. Then
the night of the street party begins. A grand
entrance from a man who dresses like Elvis
Presley, the headmaster of a sub-community
within The Comfort known as "The Dream," speaks
to the people, telling them that they were
dumped into the middle of the desert because
they're Bad Batch, basically non-functioning
members of society. Then he subsequently explains
that because none of them weren’t good enough,
smart enough, young enough, healthy enough,
wealthy enough, and sane enough for them to
call them freaks and parasites of society.
As the people of Comfort assent to it, the
headmaster concludes his speech by convincing
them all that it is time to wake up and find
The Dream.
Arlen seems to be lost in her thoughts, thinking,
what is this that they call “The Dream.”
Then she notices people lining up in front
of a young lady who feeds them with an unfamiliar
pill. And out of curiosity, she then joins
them and takes a pill.
Meanwhile, in the middle of the party, the
child loses her rabbit in the crowd. As the
child searches for it, she ends up at a place
where the headmaster is standing. He then
grabs the rabbit and gives it to her. She
immediately takes it back. Seizing the opportunity,
the headmaster deceptively leads the child
inside The Dream.
Arlen then notices that she's lost the child.
However, her intoxication from the pill makes
her lose the ability to reason. Though incapable
of making a sound judgment, her subconscious
mind strongly suggests looking for the lost
child, which leads her outside the walls of
Comfort again. The mysterious Miami Man suddenly
approaches her. Unaware of her surroundings,
she stands right in front of him, disregarding
any danger, and tells him how they're all
in a dark place, afraid of their kind.
The following day, already sober from the
pill, Arlen wakes up and notices that her
prosthetics are missing. The mysterious Miami
Man appears before her and tells her that
she is far away from The Comfort, and without
her prosthetics, she is unable to go anywhere.
He then shows a portrait of his child and
asks if she has seen her. Arlen lies and tells
him that she hasn't seen the child. Naively
believing Arlen, the Miami Man forces to make
a wager with her that he will only give Arlen's
prosthetics back and take her to The Comfort
if she agrees to look for his child. Arlen
agrees with it, and they begin their journey.
At midday, a stranger on a motorcycle suddenly
appears. He then tries to offer the Miami
Man a container of gasoline in exchange for
Arlen's leg. The tension suddenly rises as
both men stare at each other. The stranger
decides to get ready to fight as he pulls
out a long thick chain that he wears from
his body. Seeing the stranger's aggressiveness,
the Miami Man decides to yield and hands Arlen
over. He then grabs the fuel container in
exchange, turns his back, and walks away in
the opposite direction. Feeling triumphant,
the stranger carries Arlen back to his motorcycle.
Then in a split second, the Miami Man takes
his knife out and throws it directly towards
him, delivering him to his end. Confident
that the stranger is no longer alive, they
continue with their journey.
The night comes, and they set camp. As they
prepare to settle down, Arlen tries to engage
the Miami Man in a conversation by bluntly
asking how he became a Bad Batch. He goes
silent for a moment, collects his thoughts,
and opens up with Arlen. As the night goes
deeper, they become more comfortable and closer
with each other. Seizing the opportunity,
she suddenly snatches the knife away from
him and threatens to kill him. Without showing
any agitation, he drives himself closer to
Arlen, provoking her to do it. Staring at
each other for a while, the mood suddenly
changes from fear and hate into a bizarrely
romantic moment. Then suddenly, out of nowhere,
a man from The Comfort suddenly appears and
shoots the Miami Man in the chest. The man
intends to save Arlen and convinces her to
return with him to Comfort.
Back in Comfort, the uncertainty of Arlen's
current state of emotion increases, whether
or not she is happy with the security and
peace inside The Comfort, the obscurity of
her desires puzzles her. Then one day, she
decides to return to the place where she left
the Miami Man. She arrives only to find the
man's sketch pad and a bloodstain on the ground.
As disappointment flashes all over her face,
she brings the sketch pad along with her back
to The Comfort.
Meanwhile, the shabby wanderer from before
finds the Miami Man from a distance. Seemingly
lifeless on the ground, the wanderer examines
his body. Disregarding any prejudices, he
decides to take him under his care.
Arlen then indulges herself in the Miami Man's
sketch pad and finds different kinds of sketches
of people, animals, and plants. Later on,
she finds the child's portrait she once lost
at the street party and prompts a strong emotion
from her, probably her conscience. She then
decides to make copies of the child's sketch
portrait and begins to search. She asks and
shows the child's picture to the people around
Comfort, expecting to get information about
the child, but to no avail. After spending
hours of long exhausting searching, she seems
to feel that all hope is lost. And finally,
as she sits to rest, a group of young women
from The Dream suddenly walks past her and
finally sees the lost child surprisingly together
with them.
Later on that same day, Arlen shows herself
at The Dream's front door. As they grant her
entry, she then steps in, about to know the
answers to her biggest dilemma ― to find
out what The Dream is.
“The Dream” is a mansion complete with
amenities commissioned to the Elvis Presley
impersonator who was seen earlier during the
night of the street party. The mansion itself
is a small community of women living a lavish,
much more comfortable life than inside The
Comfort.
As Arlen enters the mansion, she discovers
an institution of illegal activities. She
sees a woman tending narcotic shrubs, mass
production of pills made from illegal substances,
and multiple pregnant women. Then the headmaster
arrives and makes a weird remark as he approaches
to meet her. Then he continues to explain
that what she sees around her is the economy
of The Comfort. He further continues a conversation
with delicate and sensitive issues. And as
Arlen listens, she gets lost in her thoughts.
The headmaster notices her disposition and
confronts her about not liking the place.
About to answer back, she suddenly loses the
right words to say at the moment. He then
elucidates that it costs a lot for her to
be here in The Comfort. He asks her where
she would rather be. Not able to answer, Arlen
instead stands up and sits beside him. He
continues to enthrall her by telling her that
everything she has done has put her where
she is right now. Then he demonstrates his
wisdom by first holding a cherry tomato in
his hand. He then explains that it starts
as a seed, and as you take care of the garden,
it takes care of you back, if you feed it,
and it feeds you back. He then adds a few
maxims of his statement that few things in
the world operate like it — fair and square.
Then he finally explains that The Dream is
life itself, and life is The Dream. Then he
concludes the conversation by accepting Arlen
to be a part of their elite community.
In her mind, Arlen celebrates triumphantly
to succeed her sole purpose in walking in
front of The Dreams door — to infiltrate
the mansion and achieve all the means necessary
in getting the Miami Man's child out of the
so-called "The Dream."
After Arlen sets her room, she goes impatiently
inside the bathroom. She removes her prosthetics
and pulls her gun out. Then she tells the
headmaster's consort to get inside the bathroom
because she feels nervous about what is about
to happen. And as the consort is about to
come in, she suddenly points the gun at her
pregnant belly and holds her hostage. She
demands the headmaster to bring the child
out as she threatens to scatter his unborn
child all over his walls. Without a choice,
the headmaster brings the child down from
the stairs and hands her over to Arlen. She
then takes the child and keeps his consort
hostage until she clears a path out from The
Dream. Arlen pushes more of her luck and further
demands an escape vehicle with a promise that
she will release his consort once they can
safely reach outside The Comfort. After all
of her demands are met, they then drive outside
the walls for good. And as promised, she then
leaves the headmaster's consort to return
home but keeps the vehicle for herself.
After driving for several hours, the Miami
Man suddenly shows up on a motorcycle approaching
them. The child rushes towards her father
and embraces each other, pouring their hearts
out. After their sentimental reunion, the
child runs back to the vehicle, gets her rabbit,
and introduces it to him. After acknowledging
his child's gesture, he then decides to go
back to the Bridge with her.
Arlen stops them and asks if she can tag along.
Hearing it in disbelief, the Miami Man brushes
her off and suggests that she needs to go
back to The Comfort. He continues to explain
that there is only death for her in this place.
She then shows her determination to stay,
and without a word, Arlen grabs to hold his
hand. The child then tries to break their
intimate moment and suddenly demands spaghetti.
Not knowing where to get one, the Miami Man
takes the child's rabbit and roasts it instead.
The child cries as they feast on the rabbit.
She continues to cry as she consumes the meat.
Peculiar as it is, the three are ready to
transition into the next chapter of their
lives, and they begin their journey by sharing
their first meal as a family.